# Transcript of the Meeting: meeting-1f26a6e2-a72f-4bf1-8330-71395561d808 - Meridian Immersion into TF: Paul/Ange
## Date: 6/29/2026
[00:15] Awesome. Thank you.
[00:20] Mm.
[01:55] Uh oh. Hey, I'm so sorry about having you reschedule, um, but thank you for being so flexible.
[02:03] Oh no problem at all. Um
[02:06] I may end up having to reschedule. I might actually have to reschedule R as next week. Alright. So how have it been? I uh saw that you sent the documents for the business case and for the PRD for Meridian. Um
[02:25] I think my biggest question about Meridian is like the future of it and where it's going.
[02:31] Yeah.
[02:33] Um
[02:34] So my thoughts so far and and the team is really focused on the Z delivery right now. So um
[02:44] I think we'd like to start working on other things, but
[02:48] this this deliverable is pretty tight like timeline and and scope and everything. So um
[02:59] I don't want to distract him too much, but at the same time we've got
[03:03] Like
[03:05] full roster of rock stars working on it. Um and so we can kind of burn through stuff pretty quick.
[03:12] Um so I think soon enough we'll be able to to look at other like non-Z options.
[03:20] We don't have uh meta purity yet, and I think this is kinda where it would start to describe that. Um
[03:28] I think what we
[03:31] can do is um
[03:35] ship for Z as like a standalone product. So like we'll ship Meridian.
[03:42] Um
[03:43] And you'll you'll buy that. Um it has to initially it's gonna get bundled with Terraform. So like you buy Terraform and you're gonna get Meridian. Okay. Um just to try to get it into customers' hands and because there's like timeline and there's learning about this stuff in in IBM, it's it's it's kinda crazy. It's a whole other language. I don't understand most of it. Um
[04:14] But thankfully we've got like IBM veterans on on the PMT. But the idea would be um to have like a separate Meridian product, essentially. Um and you would buy that separately. And then it can install TFE for you in Z. And it it can install uh Vault Enterprise for you. Okay. Um
[04:44] So that's on Z and then we have this um
[04:47] like power thing. There's like power PC like the Mac used to run on it, if you remember. Yeah. Uh like a long time ago. Yeah. So they have that stuff. Um that's still a bunch of money too. Um not as much as Z, but they've been recently work with us. They we already like engage with them and they'd like to um
[05:11] uh shift as two and so I think we would just match that same like kind of posture packaging um and as a separate product so we'll just do the same thing there. And then for T V
[05:27] for our existing customers, I think we could do the same thing because Meridian has its own like hogs like and maintenance and like you have to stand it up. It's a bunch of services that you gotta run. And so that um
[05:44] That's like a lot of work. Um
[05:48] Um
[05:51] don't want to pay anything more than they're and they don't want extra maintenance burden. But there's some that like want AI stuff. So I think at least at first we can start with that same thing where it's like ready in a separate thing and you run it and then you can use it. And for those customers that want a bunch of AI support. Um
[06:13] And there we go.
[06:15] Um
[06:16] And then packaging lets us like go to our existing customers already there, instead of going to find new ones or like switching everything up on them and like
[06:26] Um make it all complicated. So I think this this should be like a more natural path for us.
[06:34] Um but then
[06:36] Or
[06:38] The SAS product in the cloud. Um
[06:41] I think that's where we kind of bring them both together.
[06:45] And I think that's where like we come in with this.
[06:49] these ideas of like how do we kind of make that how do we bring the the power of reading into the product. I think that creates like
[07:02] I think even a shorter term problem of like um so if we build it into TFC
[07:10] Is it not in TFE then? Yeah. Is it not integrated? Like how's that work? Um
[07:18] And
[07:20] Yeah, there's the the immediate issues of like it's not built in um
[07:27] Ember, yes.
[07:39] Yeah, so we've got a few front end engineers um staff level that um would help out and like work on this. So um
[07:49] Yeah.
[07:50] I don't think it's gonna be a huge problem. And then the timeline um it seems are working super fast. So
[07:57] I mean we might be able to get something on TFE like this year. Wow, okay. And then be TFC like Q one to Q2. Okay.
[08:07] Um
[08:09] So I think like the Maridian team should probably not
[08:15] on Z and power specific stuff or TFE specific stuff. Like long term.
[08:22] Um
[08:23] It's more obvious for the Z and power things than they want to own it anyway. So like anything Z specific they can take over. And that's more like uh
[08:33] Um kind of like knowledge packs kind of thing of like
[08:37] Here's all the docs and and knowledge base around how Z works and that's kinda like built in. Um
[08:45] It's less less specific to the platform itself.
[08:50] Generally good at
[08:53] Um
[08:54] being a harness for infrastructure management, which is transferable. So on on the like TFE and TFC side, we have um
[09:05] a cloud operations that it needs to do, which is a bit different. And then Z. Um so we've kind of gotta bootstrap that effort and make it good at operating cloud things. Okay. But it's gonna take like more work to do
[09:29] uh like add CSP stuff and test it, you know, AWS GSP I sure um OCM we're looking at um
[09:41] of a team
[09:43] That is already done like simulation stuff. Like they've fully wrapped AWS. Um
[09:49] APIs to simulate them.
[09:53] We're working with Z like we build a simulator for Z so like you can change things in the simulator and then apply them. So there's like if we buy them, there's some kind of new potential. They they at least want to partner. Um, but it's like
[10:10] I don't know if partner is enough, because partner usually need to keep some separation and interface. But like we want to just take all their stuff and build it into our products. Okay. So yeah, offer like new terraform features and stuff. Um it's it's cool looking. So
[10:28] Anyway, that I think that's one way to kinda jump ahead a little bit on the T C side. Um but so I think I I've kinda mentioned it before, like I mainly see
[10:42] Well putting T C and and reading together is like a UX problem.
[10:47] Yeah. So that's kind of
[10:51] Where I see the future of this stuff. And I think it's not even that far away. It's just
[10:57] Q one like we should start working on it. I mean yeah. Yeah, we kind of are. Yeah. Yeah. Um Yeah. Is there so
[11:09] It was previously my understanding that Meridian was going to get skinned in carbon and live off concert.
[11:16] Does that still happen?
[11:19] Um
[11:20] There's they have a concert integration just because all the parts have a concert requirement. Uh
[11:29] That's it. It's not gonna be a part of concert or anything. It's gonna be um I mean it's in the I Line group.
[11:36] Okay, okay. Um yeah, I'm the I'm the
[11:41] PM director over a two PMs uh working on it and um
[11:48] I can show you like
[11:50] I mean we're starting to pull in.
[11:53] A bunch of folks um.
[11:57] Let's see here. I should add
[12:02] It is dark.
[12:11] It's the worst looking especially like I don't know why there's days missing. Is it like the font or something?
[12:25] Yeah, so here's people uh
[12:28] Yeah.
[12:31] S.
[12:33] Um
[12:35] Yeah, so I think this is this just got updated like an hour ago. Okay.
[12:41] So
[12:46] And this was more like as of.
[12:49] over the next week that's we're kind of focused on really timelines for these things. So if it's too far ahead, like
[12:59] Oh wait, the first. Oh that's the there is another one where it was like later. Um
[13:05] In like two weeks. Like we just kinda skipped over them. Okay. Okay, great. It's hard as hell to read this. Like what the hell?
[13:14] Um
[13:17] But yeah, so we're we're kind of onboarding people pretty quick. So what we don't have is like an explicit team just to do the merging.
[13:27] This team is all focused on getting on Z. I think we'll have to kind of
[13:33] Boots strap that side word two just uh just to see. But I think um you know starting with
[13:41] Yeah.
[13:44] the the PM like justification and like this is our direction we had a strategy meaning class
[13:52] Last Friday. And then um
[13:57] Daniel and Omar.
[13:58] When I'm PTO this week, so they yes, they did. Um I was trying to meet with Daniel and he told me to meet with Omar uh because he was on vacation this week and then I found out Omar was on vacation this week and I'm like all right, well just talk to Chris and Chris will dictate the workshop towards whatever we're trying to do. Oh cool. Yeah. So I think um like we need the early vision work and and ideas and stuff, and like trying to do that before we get to engineering, of course. Um
[14:34] But I think they're just some earlier strategy work that they wanted to settle. Um
[14:41] From the the PM side. Okay, okay. So that sounds good. Yeah, and we are working with the the strategy group on that. Although I mean I think we can still
[14:58] Um so I have heard Z been thrown around quite a lot, but I think I need someone to give me a solid definition of it. If you be so kind. I would really appreciate that. Z is cool as hell.
[15:20] Okay.
[15:25] Like Marks that she gets used, but like they've got pretty cool design.
[15:31] So Z is like these mainframes. These guys like they look cool. It's been around forever. Um
[15:40] This this software that runs on this, it's like the management layer is like cobalt based. Okay and and you can run the same software that you wrote in the 60s. And this is like banks and insurance companies and shit are running all their stuff on here, and there's um machine learning stuff on here that does old like insurance models and stuff. Um it's it doesn't really do new like AI like generative AI kind of things. It doesn't run like Lama or any granite even. It doesn't even run that because these cards are purpose built for these kind of larger
[16:30] Um
[16:32] And
[16:33] So I should actually we've as part of this project we made those cards work to do regular AI inference, uh which is super impressive. It's like side projects make these like run normal AI things. Um
[16:51] I mean some of that might switch, but I think that's the just like it's these cool boxes and so the install processes like
[17:00] Uh looks like this.
[17:03] Like you've got to physically go to these things. It's not like a cloud install. Okay. Um there's someone sitting in there in front of there of a laptop and like
[17:13] Not doing that, but they are like plugging shit in. And these boxes cost like half a million dollars each. Oh my god. Like each one of these. And so um I mean that's what there's five, there's one half nine, or is it three? Yeah so
[17:33] Like we have a hard time getting access to it ourselves.
[17:38] There's um
[17:39] early testers like where they build these things. Um and are
[17:45] Like IBM CIO office, if you've heard of that. Um
[17:50] They're like they kinda run the business, like technical side of the business. Um
[17:57] For all of IBM and and their kind of potential early users of offering. And so we're getting access like in some way.
[18:07] Yeah to install stuff on here. There are compet competing products um to Meridian, but you know, we're the IBM one and we're kinda owned that. The Z Team um
[18:20] These things are so cool. The Z Team.
[18:26] Would have liked to get around to this eventually, but it might take them three years. And apparently some of our solutions have just kind of we've jumped way ahead of where they would have gone to. Okay. Um so they're pretty excited about it. Is it the Meridian's gonna be run on C? Is that the uh the intent? Oh okay I gotcha. Yeah, so say it would run on this box and it manages all everything in it. Wow. Yeah. Okay, so there's like higher level management software sitting on these already. Or um well, low level and and higher level, and they kinda have like
[19:09] You can use um
[19:12] Uh Red Hat. Um
[19:16] It's like the Kubernetes equivalent. Okay, okay. It's not great either. I'm not surprised at all. Something that's supports Google has a bad UI. Yeah. So bringing in Ray is kind of a huge jump for this whole situation here. It's incredible. Okay. The pricing is like however you buy this stuff. There's some like we just match it in price and the initial
[19:49] Sales are gonna be like um
[19:53] You. Today you would buy Term and it's it's uh what they call it.
[19:59] And
[20:00] M S Us.
[20:02] Um like you would buy those things is million service units. Okay. And a service unit is like an hour of time on a machine. Okay. So whatever you're buying here already, we would just kinda
[20:15] uh an equivalent of that like a dollar now for running terraform on it. And so at first like you would get terraform and then we kinda get also give you Meridian and
[20:27] And we're gonna double the the price of that skew. Um
[20:31] To kinda
[20:33] There is a crap ton of money in this stuff, as you can imagine. And so it's already like some 30 or 60% of our revenue. Oh my gosh. Okay. Holy crap. Like there's a terraform provider for these machines, and that thing alone. I've seen companies. I saw spreadsheets that are spending millions of dollars on just that. Unbelievable. Yeah, but they don't really want to. Yeah, they don't want to. So I mean this is like a really cool thing to bring into this this space. That's a crazy. Yeah, and then I mean power is just similar. Okay. Like it's just different stuff. Okay.
[21:26] And then okay. Wow.
[21:28] That's a fantastic opportunity. I mean congratulations. I didn't realize the scope of it that hard. Yeah. I mean this was initially um built by or set started by um J on the tech side and then Shroon on the business side. Um he had previously owned the the like G Izy stuff. Um
[21:54] And currently he's off at a comparator now, so um we kick him out like within an hour.
[22:01] So you mentioned before the there's the concern about the bridge between Meridian and Terraform. Um
[22:10] Do you see those specific users interacting with Terraform's UI at all? Cause I only see them really in Meridian. Unless they were in the monitoring role.
[22:21] Yeah, uh it's like T V is just a distribution and um
[22:27] Like it's a minute to make all all changes. Right. But Meridian would be kinda the
[22:34] It would wrap it and run it. Right.
[22:38] own the whole thing and you would just work with Ryan and um T V's kind of implementation detail. Although of course T V's powerful on its own if you want to do that stuff you could do that too. I guess you bought it. But you know that's
[22:53] That's that's the basis. And then we'll make terraform itself and T V better for
[23:01] I'm ready to operate. Okay.
[23:04] And so there's kinda other projects. So there's kinda like two tracks of like
[23:10] Making terror form better uh for agents and then making these agents better.
[23:18] Operating performance TV. Right, right. Okay. Yeah.
[23:22] Okay.
[23:24] That's a lot to digest. Okay, cool.
[23:26] I'll think about that.
[23:28] Yeah, I think um
[23:30] I mean that's like the initial thing. I think our our you know big problem is
[23:37] Have you
[23:39] How do we transition our existing users over to using this? Um
[23:45] I mean we've had discussions about that, but um
[23:49] Oops I mean she's got build it, I think my um
[23:55] It's really impressive.
[23:58] All a lot of the like technical pieces are really interesting. Um there's potential stuff we can like pull out of Marine and just put it in Terform. Yeah. Um
[24:10] There's like just the technical like this service might be able to be for us over here. But then there's also like if we just take the whole Meridian and wrap it and put expose it in the UI in TFC somewhere. Yeah, I think we're talking about and where we want to spend some time on. That's what I'm hoping to be somewhat of an immersive experience. Like I talk about what does the immersive experience look like as far as like harnessing agent um
[24:41] aging capabilities inside of Terraform and I imagine like two separate areas. Like there's the um areas that we inject it individually into the UI outside of like an immersive experience where immersive an immersed experience would be more similar to what Meridian is trying to do. Nicole separately is working on some sort of chat feature for Explorer View and I'm not sure if it's focused inside of Explorer View or if it's meant to be like more of a global AI chat feature. Yeah. I also need to figure out like what do they mean by a chat feature. I'm thinking they should kill that, honestly in favor of Meridian. So I don't know where that project came from in the first place. I was trying to get to the bottom of that. I don't know and
[25:28] My so my biggest fear is that Skyway got out into the universe and people saw it as a chat feature, like a clippy on cocaine, and they're like, Oh, we need to do this like right now. But like they're sort of like missing the earmark of the fact that like it's not really about having like a chat feature that's amazing or an AI agent that speaks to you and summarizes what you need to do and remediates. It's about like the integration as a whole. Um
[25:51] So I'm worried that I started this.
[25:54] Um there's no. Yeah, I think what's gonna happen is like Meridian
[26:01] is what powers all of the AI features in in um
[26:08] Uh different cloud. I think I think the AGX stuff will probably mostly go away. Okay.
[26:19] I mean that team's been working on hard on things and they've they've done good work, but we need to um I know I think consolidate and so I think you're right, yeah.
[26:29] Whatever any other teams are doing right now should probably be reoriented towards Meridian and we don't know what that is yet. So I think they got all like
[26:39] Maybe.
[26:40] I'm trying to redirect that and be more practical stuff I can get shipped separately. But I think getting folks work like discussing and thinking through workflows and stuff and how to operate that with with agents. I think that that's useful anyway. That's hard. Absolutely, absolutely. And I see a lot of the groundwork has been done already. Um as far as like Aishon's work with agent configuration. So I think in terms of that, you know, we're all thinking towards the same goal. Uh, but I agree we do need to be a little more cohesive in our um separate projects. Uh yeah, like so I think it would be more like um
[27:20] You know, from cloud AI.
[27:24] uh powered by Meridian or something like that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if how like how far we want to push the branding, but um I mean I think Meridian's really impressive and our customers are going to love it. And so if we do service that in um
[27:41] And it's our formula. Like we can get some easy trust signals there. Yeah. Um it's not just some like random crapper slapping and voice. You know, that you've probably seen with other apps. So hopefully. I don't want to just inject it, you know, and have it sit in there and be like, go to Meridian over there. I don't want to do that. Uh I want that workshop. That's why I'm hungry about this like chat thing. So I wanna um in terms of the workshop, and I know we're over time. I'm sorry, I just need like 30 more seconds. Um in terms of the workshop that I'm going to have over the next two weeks, what it is is it's pulling all the uh user feedback that Lada has collected in terms of what they think agent work should be, and then having a dis big discussion on like what those potential issues are, organizing them in a way in terms of priority, and then getting together with like a design led portion and ideating towards solutionizing on those items. Um
[28:45] Uh, are you are you suggesting that we guide it towards meridian first integration in TF?
[28:54] Um
[28:55] Yeah. Okay. Like
[28:57] I don't I think it will
[29:00] uh Uber up all the other like the existing AI teams. I think so too. So yeah. Yeah. So it just doesn't make sense to have several different teams and then Meridian's like really good. So we should use that on Okay. Um I want I want your opinion to help guide the workshop, that's what I'm saying. So you know there's a couple people I'm talking to to help guide the goal of the workshop. And I'm gonna keep that in mind for the discussions moving forward, like pushing that what I call immersive experience towards integrating Meridian more closely with TF.
[29:36] Okay. Yeah. I think I think that's the right one. Um we don't have any team there yet, but
[29:42] Um
[29:44] I mean we've got a and I think there's still some contention on the product side, so we've got to work through that. Okay, okay. Um but any exploration that we're doing I think would be useful. Okay, excellent. All right, good to know.
